Prismic embed fields (#394)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: source/docs/prismic/embed-fields.md

---
id: embed-fields
title: Embed Fields
---

Embed fields allows you to add a valid oEmbed URL, like YouTube, Vimeo, or Spotify, to generate embed html content, or add your own custom embed content. You can read more about the oEmbed format, view a list of supported providers on the [oEmbed website](https://oembed.com/).

In Front-Commerce we expose the embed fields in two ways;

- Standalone Embed fields with an EmbedTransformer
- Embed Fields in [`WysiwygV2`](/docs/advanced/theme/wysiwyg.html#lt-WysiwygV2-gt-usage) with [`PrismicWysiwyg`](/docs/advanced/theme/wysiwyg-platform.html#PrismicWysiwyg)

In this section we will cover how to implement both of these methods, and how to implement your own custom embed fields.

## Standalone Embed Fields

You can learn how to [configure an embed field](https://prismic.io/docs/core-concepts/embed) in the prismic documentation.

> For these example let's say we want to create an album cover from an embed field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example let's say we want to create an album cover from an embed field.
```

As I understand there is only one example in this section

```js
const AlbumLoader = (PrismicLoader) => {
  const { EmbedTransformer } = PrismicLoader.transformers;

  const contentTransformOptions = {
    fieldTransformers: {
      // ... other transformers
      cover: new EmbedTransformer(),
    },
  };

  return {
    loadByUID: (uid) => {
      return PrismicLoader.loadByUID("album", uid, contentTransformOptions);
    },
  };
};
```

### Adding an Embed Field in your client-side

We have added a `PrismicEmbed` component to handle the embed response in you client side.

To simplify the usage between the component and the backend data we created a `PrismicEmbedFragment` which contains the minimum required data for the component, for example:

```graphql
#import "theme/modules/prismic/PrismicEmbed/PrismicEmbedFragment"

fragment AlbumFragment on Album {
  title
  cover {
    ...PrismicEmbedFragment
  }
}
```

> The fragment will expose the `html`, `provider` and `type` fields in the [`oEmbedContent`](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce-prismic/-/blob/main/prismic/server/modules/prismic/core/schema.gql) type.

Reviewer 2: **issue(non-blocking):** this list might become outdated (out of sync from the code) over time.

**suggestion:** rephrase it in a more vague way
```suggestion
The fragment will expose several fields from the [`oEmbedContent`](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce-prismic/-/blob/main/prismic/server/modules/prismic/core/schema.gql) type.
```

      // ... other transformers
      cover: new EmbedTransformer(),
    },
  };

  return {
    loadByUID: (uid) => {
      return PrismicLoader.loadByUID("album", uid, contentTransformOptions);
    },
  };
};
```

### Adding an Embed Field in your client-side

We have added a `PrismicEmbed` component to handle the embed response in you client side.

To simplify the usage between the component and the backend data we created a `PrismicEmbedFragment` which contains the minimum required data for the component, for example:

```graphql
#import "theme/modules/prismic/PrismicEmbed/PrismicEmbedFragment"

fragment AlbumFragment on Album {
  title
  cover {
    ...PrismicEmbedFragment
  }
}
```

The fragment will expose the `html`, `provider` and `type` fields in the [`oEmbedContent`](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce-prismic/-/blob/main/prismic/server/modules/prismic/core/schema.gql) type.

```jsx
import PrismicEmbed from "theme/modules/prismic/PrismicEmbed";

const Album = (props) => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{props.title}</h1>
      <PrismicEmbed
        html={props.cover.html}
        type={props.cover.type}
        provider={props.cover.provider}

>       />

Reviewer 2: **issue:** the example here highlights a possible responsibility issue. The `<Album />` component, shouldn't be aware of any of the `props.cover` field.\
It should only be the responsibility of the `<PrismicEmbed />` component.\
**Goal:** if we improve the `oEmbedContent` GraphQL interface, it should only impact the `PrismicEmbed` component & fragment. In this example, userland code will also be impacted.

**suggestion(easy):** we should only document props forwarding -> `<PrismicEmbed {...props.cover} />`

**suggestion(needs-code-refactoring):** or change the `<PrismicEmbed />` API to only accept one `prop` -> `<PrismicEmbed content={props.cover} />`

Author: Okey yea thanks I think I will go for the code refactoring, as it will align more with the Wysiwyg usage.

Author: added a refactoring [MR](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce-prismic/-/merge_requests/83) for this.

    </div>
  );
};
```

You can override the default components for each embed type in your own theme

| Type    | Component                                                |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `photo` | `theme/modules/prismic/PrismicEmbed/Components/Photo.js` |
| `video` | `theme/modules/prismic/PrismicEmbed/Components/Video.js` |
| `link`  | `theme/modules/prismic/PrismicEmbed/Components/Link.js`  |
| `rich`  | `theme/modules/prismic/PrismicEmbed/Components/Rich.js`  |

As mentioned above, the fragment only exposes the minimum required fields for the PrismicEmbed component, if you would like to create your own custom embed component you can refer to all the available fields on the [`oEmbedContent`](https://gitlab.com/front-commerce/front-commerce-prismic/-/blob/main/prismic/server/modules/prismic/core/schema.gql) type.

## Wysiwyg Embed Fields

The [PrismicWysiwyg](/docs/advanced/theme/wysiwyg-platform.html#PrismicWysiwyg) type allows you to add embed fields to your Wysiwyg.

### Prerequisites

> To get started with the PrismicWysiwyg, please ensure that you have applied the override to `theme/modules/WysiwygV2/getWysiwygComponent.js`, you can follow the documentation from [Wysiwyg](/docs/advanced/theme/wysiwyg.html), to understand how implement Wysiwyg.

Reviewer 2: **suggestion:** as per my other comments, I'd suggest to redirect to a section form the Installation page that will contain the details below.\
This  section will only contain a single paragraph.

      if (typeof window !== "undefined" && window.FB) {
        window.FB.XFBML.parse(ref);
      }
    },
  },
};

export default appEmbeds;
```

### Custom or raw HTML embeds in Wysiwyg

To add custom or raw HTML as for EmbedFields you would need to make some customization to the PrismicWysiwyg.

First setup your Prismic Rich Text field to allow the `pre` Tag

<div style="text-align:left;">
  <img src="./assets/embed-fields/rich-text-pre-tags.png" alt="Enable pre tags in Rich Text" style="border-radius:5px;">
</div>

Then you can create a custom component for the pre tag, which will be used to inject the html into the dom.

```jsx
// theme/modules/Wysiwygv2/PrismicWysiwyg/Components/Pre/index.js
import React from "react";

const Pre = (props) => {
  const html = props.children[0].props.children || "";
  return html ? <div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{ __html: html }} /> : null;
};

export default Pre;
```

Then you will need to register this component by overriding the `theme/modules/WysiwygV2/PrismicWysiwyg/appComponentsMap.js` file.

```js
import Pre from "./Components/Pre";

const appComponentsMap = {
  pre: Pre,
};

export default appComponentsMap;
```

> To improve the loading of scripts you can implement your own `useEffect` to lazy load the specific script by detecting the provider in the HTML raw text, you might also be interested in implementing a helper like [`dangerously-set-html-content`](https://github.com/christo-pr/dangerously-set-html-content) which can better handle to loading if injected scripts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To improve the loading of scripts you can implement your own `useEffect` to lazy load the specific script by detecting the provider in the HTML raw text, you might also be interested in implementing a helper like [`dangerously-set-html-content`](https://github.com/christo-pr/dangerously-set-html-content) which can better handle to loading of injected scripts.
```
